news continues broadcasting Khabar channel 24
studios Khasan Israilov and Vera Zakharchuk are working
Hello
in Aktobe region Locomotive
collided with a passenger train on the
Bishkek Samara route as a result,
two cars and a diesel locomotive derailed
no victims eliminated the accident for more than
seven hours now the passenger train has already
set off on its route reasons  the
circumstances of the incident are being clarified by a
special commission reported to KTZ in the
police of Aktobe region
commented on an accident with schoolchildren as a
result of which an
underage girl died and four
other passengers were in the hospital
one of the victims was in serious condition
-year-old teenager he lost
control the car flew into a ditch and
overturned on the fact of the accident a
pre-trial investigation was launched
To the events in the world a freight train derailed
in the US  this
incident occurred near the city of
Springfield, 20 wagons flew off the track The
railway company owning the
train stated that
there were no casualties and the reasons for the emergency were not reported over the
past month this is not the first
such incident his Guy derailed into another commodity a month ago in the
same state
owned by the same
company,
law enforcement agencies in Australia,
together with colleagues and the United States, covered
the largest consignment of drugs in history
During an international operation, about
2.5 tokenins were seized on the Black Market, the cost of
such a consignment is estimated at almost $ 700 million
local authorities report the
involvement of the Mexican cartel in the
supply  cargo to Australia in this
case, 12 suspects were detained the
number of victims of earthquakes in Turkey
reached almost 46 thousand people,
Interior Minister Suleyman Suylu said at a briefing
more than 58% of buildings were temporarily destroyed with the removal of rubble, in particular in Antarca,
more than a million families received a one-time allowance of 10,000 liras or almost 230,000 tenge.  The
premier of the State Council of
China noted or the Chinese traditionally made a
report And in the work of the government at the
session of the entire Chinese People's Congress,
stimulation of
the birth rate is associated with a negative
population growth last year for the
first time in the last 60 years, the
PRC parliament meets once a year in this deputies
will elect a chairman  The PRC will approve a new
premier and his deputies it is expected that the
post of head of state
will be taken over by jinping for the third time in his speech The
premier summed up the work over the past
period and set tasks for the current year
plans for the year the next GDP growth is approximately
Unemployment will remain at the level of five percent
at the level of almost 5.5% The
specific
energy intensity of GDP and total emissions of the
main types of pollutants will continue to be reduced
Special attention will be paid to
limiting the consumption of fossil
energy sources The environmental situation will improve
cooperation with all countries of the world, a
storm warning was announced
in several regions of Kazakhstan at once, according to
Kazhydromet, precipitation in the form of snow
and rain is also expected
throughout the country,
meteorologists warn of
wind intensification in places up to 20 meters per second in the
north East and in the center of the Republic
behind you is a blizzard and in the west
and south fog
departmental danger according to
their information in the period from March 5 to March 7
in the river basins of big small almatinka
snow is possible to melt Rescuers
recommend in the coming days in  refrain
from hiking the mountain in case of unforeseen
situations, you can call for help by
calling 112 [
music]  of
the diversified agro-industrial
complex zhanaray amanatovtsy talked
with the staff of the Kazakh
research institute
management of the lack of irrigation water and the
subsidy system was held A
meeting with the sports community with the
participation of more than 400 people members of the headquarters
told the athletes about the
party's initiatives in the development of professional and
mass sports, as well as the promotion of a
healthy lifestyle
teachers educate the future generation,
therefore your work here is of particular
value
candidates for deputies from the aul party
carried out propaganda work in the company
kainar mu  naigas in the Atyrau region at
a meeting with oil workers they presented the
election program and answered
questions of interest to workers
candidates also visited remote
peasant farms at a meeting with
party members for each farmer there was an
opportunity to talk about the problems
that concern them
the delegation got acquainted with the initial construction of a
greenhouse complex in this area
more  five hectares of land are building a
greenhouse according to the Dutch technology,
which will provide vegetables to the
Atyrau region. There
are a lot of
quasi-state enterprises here,
including oil producing
gas processing enterprises.
Basically, these enterprises
buy vegetable products and foodstuffs abroad from
neighboring states, so providing their
own products is
relevant for this  of the region
What innovations can women bring
in parliament were discussed in the
republic party, its representatives
arrived in Petro with pre-election motor
Pavlovsk, special emphasis at the meeting with
residents of the regional center was placed on the
conversation about gender equality in the country, the
participants of the meeting actively asked
questions and expressed their opinion about the role of
women both in the family and at work,
the parties also presented the main
points of their election platform
paid more attention to the social
direction  and asked what
problems concern the residents of Petropavlovsk
first of the campaign tour
the republicans visited the wills of 10 regions the
electoral campaign continues in the
north of the country Next stop the city of
Kokshetau the
republican election headquarters of the
people's parties of Kazakhstan continues
campaigning
in the
regions
one of
the largest local construction companies
in the market it
has been specializing in the construction of residential
buildings for more than 10 years presented the planned objects to the party members
told about plans to improve  The
parties also talked to the citys image The
employees of the company listened to their
wishes and explained the main points of the
election platform during the conversation paid special attention to the
development of entrepreneurship and
housing  the
most
remote villages we meet, we
explain our program along the way,
we answer the questions of Voters,
and on the day of the 157th anniversary of the famous
public figure Alikhan Bukekhan,
representatives of the republican headquarters of the
Green Baytag Party honored His memory by the
leader of the Alash movement, which
was opened on the territory of the Capital Alley of
Writers in July 2021 by the initiator
of this  of the event, one of the
public foundations spoke these days, the
republican regional headquarters of the
green baytag party are conducting active
campaigning work according to the
previously approved schedule at a meeting with the population  the
party's pre-election platform is widely covered
Today we work we see throughout
Kazakhstan we carry out campaigning work
our party according to the
schedule and today we have specially
arrived
akzhou they also raised a number of
issues related to youth spoke
about education about medicine affordable
housing and the labor market members of the
republican pre-election scale listened
carefully to the opinions of people and
answered all their questions at least the conversations
spoke about the priority areas of
their election program, I note that
campaigning
is carried out everywhere in all regions  the
country's first pre-election race,
party members held more than five thousand
open doors held at the
republican headquarters of the nationwide
Social Democratic Party at the meeting
discussed a wide range of issues and
current problems which  the
social democrats shared their vision of
resolving all the issues raised and
told voters about the main
key areas of their election
program online event
was attended by candidates for deputies of the
PSD from other regions in total in the
election race from the party
19 candidates are participating 21 masle khaty people and
six contenders in single-mandate
constituencies
within the framework of the
open day we held a Zoom
conference with the regions they told us
what problematic issues they
raise what problems
citizens come up with what problems they come
up with outlined our plans and compared, so to speak,
hours
with our  regions
[music]
236 streets will be repaired in Kyzylorda by the end of the year,
among the large-scale projects for
the expansion of Sultan Baybars Avenue,
four and a half kilometers of roads
connecting the Autobahn Western Europe
Western China from the ring road with Kazgan
are planned
turn into a four-lane
highway 14 meters wide will update
street
lighting and bus stops at the
request of residents in the regional center will
begin construction of a pedestrian bridge
across the canal a
crossing will be built in the Baiterek microdistrict
about 50 billion
According to the expert opinion,
12 months are allotted for construction work.
But we plan to commission the bridge ahead of schedule
around August this year. The
Hungarian district of the Atyrau region is
successfully developing entrepreneurship.
The villagers are actively participating in
government programs. They use
preferential loans and put their business on stream.  Kuatov,
a resident of the village of
Koktugay, started breeding quails in
2021. At the first stage, he acquired only 30
birds within two years, the number of
birds with high
egg production  yu has reached 600 units
stop here the entrepreneur is
not going to participate in
government programs and expand the
family business
now the state
supports start-up entrepreneurs very well
and this should be used for example
to expand the
space and increase the livestock to
2000 units,
his business in the village is successfully developing and
batyrzhan nauryzbekov two years ago,
the man took part in the competition of
state grants, spent the
funds received on the
purchase of carpet washing equipment
provides services for residents of
the Indora and Makhabet districts
provides employment for several villagers
2021  year I applied for participation in the
competition of state grants, won
3 million tenge and brought
modern carpet washing equipment to Turkey
as I undertook  we
have five people working in a good
team if young people are engaged in
modern business trends then
older people prefer to run a
traditional economy say
civil servants raise poultry
small and large cattle
h
the villagers actively use
state support measures know
how profitable it is win grants
take preferential loans successfully run
Experts note that if earlier the
village was leaving, now it understands where it is
better, more profitable and more efficient Russia
strives to improve not only its own life,
but also to benefit society
more than 50 types of pesticides and
high-quality plant protection products
are produced by a plant located in
Stepnogorsk, Akmola region,
last year the enterprise  produced more than
6 million liters of agrochemical
preparations Aslana butalipov, the
company's
domestic enterprise Astana
Chemical is known to the agrorem as a reliable
permanent supplier of the pesticide, almost
all technologically  th process takes place
exactly here, where modern
production lines and
automated equipment, our
team travels to show how
to prepare solutions correctly, how to
apply correctly, at what time
to apply Because there is a seasonality in the
use of different products. In addition,
many farms do not have warm rooms
for storing these products, they have
the right to bring  here they leave the
product they bought at our factory for
safekeeping and when the
time comes for use, they can again pick up
and apply the benchmark quality and
compliance with international standards. Each
technological stage goes through
strict examination and laboratory
control.
This is done by the
Production Research
Laboratory, which has international
accreditation.
Incoming control of raw materials and all
components that come in. A
laboratory sample of the products that
we are going to  to start up according to the recipe
that the main technologies give us is
gradually expanding And the share of the
Kazakhstani content of the
products is our own raw materials, additives
and canisters, but the plant intends not to
stop there if
there is demand from the farmers, the
enterprise is ready to produce up to 50
million liters of pesticides
aslanabutalipov Evgeniy Shinkarenko
Akmola region  Khabar 24
increased by 8 percent the statistics of
early detection of cancer in the
Aktobe region due to the introduction of
modern diagnostic methods, the
consciousness of the population plays an important role,
doctors say people began to
visit polyclinics more often to be interested in the
state of health and actively undergo
screenings
with details of
stomach pain 69-year-old resident of
Aktobe love mamedova  complaints began to worry
at the end of last year the woman
immediately turned to the local
doctor issued the necessary tests
the results were disappointing but
quite encouraging  doctors discovered
colorectal cancer of the second stage a
month later, pensioners had an operation And
now they are already preparing for discharge, of course,
the operation was very difficult 7 hours
they did it Thanks to our surgeons here are
very good
top-class specialists, they have a lot of experience
free screening tests are
now being carried out in all clinics of the
region for examination  they invite people from Aktobe
over 30 years old doctors office
there is a huge queue of
visitors they take the necessary tests
if any deviations from the
norm are detected they are sent to narrow specialists
people understand
what needs to be done and every year they
come more and more actively and
there is a detectability in two months they won two
positive gems  there is no cult of the test, but
there is no oncology among them, there is
also hemorrhoids among mammography, the activity is also
good, people are happy to go
because a lot of
mastopathy has been detected in us and every two years
in two months already 96 people
have undergone mammography e M1 M2
revealed  eno M4 M5 we still dont have such a thing
due to screening
studies and the careful attitude of
Aktobe residents to their health in the region,
the statistics of early detection of
oncological diseases has increased from 3,000
people registered in the oncology center
from 30% the first and second
stages of cancer were diagnosed patients were prescribed a full
range of necessary procedures  of course,
the number of this is said, the incidence is
growing in our country, yes, again, this is
due to the introduction of diagnostic methods of
modern diagnostics. That is, it
has improved; secondly, it is the consciousness of
patients, that is, they have already begun to kind of
trust to participate in these
screenings. early diagnosis is a guarantee
that we  we can defeat oncology
10 15 years ago, they already gave up there, lets say
so, conditionally, now we can
kind of afford to say about
recovery, according to Medics, the first
place in the structure of morbidity
is such Among the causes of death today,
gastric cancer is also often
malignant  natural neoplasms are detected
in the lungs and mammary gland Aisulu
Makhmutova
Khabar 24
this is our issue is completed Thank you for being
with us All the best
[music]